Alright, so now it's time to practice
what you've learned in the section this
challenge won't be as long as the last
section, because even though we looked at
quite a few things, the for loop is not
that different from what we do in Java,
the if statement slash expression hasn't
really changed, when is new but we don't-
it wasn't as much new stuff in this
section but still there's stuff you can
practice, so let's start. I've created a
Kotlin project already and the usual
package and file. So for your first
challenge, I want you to use a range to
print out the numbers 5 to 5,000 in
steps of 5. So you should be printing out
5 10 15 20 25 etc.
all the way up to 5,000 so use a
range and print out the numbers from 5
to 5,000. Pause the video and I'll see you in a bit.
Alright welcome back. Well obviously
we're also going to have to use a
for-loop to do this,
so we'll say for i in five to five
thousand, so there is our range and we
want to do this in steps of 5 and we'll
just print line i, so the start and end
values are included in the range and so
we start with 5 and we end with 5000 and
we want to increment the value by 5 each
time, so we'll step 5 now I could run
this and I will even though it's going
to print out quite a few values
and here's 5,000 at the end and if I
scroll all the way up we start at 5 and
we're going up in increments of 5,
so that was a pretty easy one just to get
started and I'm going to comment this
out now because I don't want all those
numbers printed out every time I run.
So now I want you to do the same thing, use
a range but I want you to print the
numbers from negative 500 to zero
without skipping any numbers, so use a
range to print the numbers from negative
500 to zero inclusive so the first
number printed should be negative 500
and then negative 499 negative 498 etc
all the way to 0. So pause the video and
give that a shot.
Okay, welcome back well negative numbers
aren't special when using ranges, so this
is just a matter of setting the start
value to negative 500 and the N value to
zero. So we'll say for i in negative 500
to 0 and print line i, so let's run this
and you'll see that the last value is 0
which is what we wanted and we started
up at negative 500, so that's how you
would do that one. Alright, so your next
challenge is using a range, I want you to
print the first 15, 1 5 numbers in the
Fibonacci sequence, now if you're not
familiar with that sequence, it starts
with 0 and 1 and then after that each
subsequent number is the sum of the two
preceding numbers. So let me comment this
out now and so the Fibonacci sequence
starts with 0 and 1 and then you get the
next number by adding up the two
preceding numbers, so we would add 0 and
1 and so the next number is 1 and now
the next number, we add the two preceding
for the two last numbers that's another
way of looking at it, so 1 in 1 is 2 so
the next number in the sequence is 2 and
now 1 plus 2 is 3, so the next number in
the sequence is 3, 2 plus 3 is 5 so the
next number in the sequence is 5, 3 + 5
is 8 so the next number in the sequence
is 8 etc. and I want you to print the
first 15, 1 5 so print the first 15
numbers in the Fibonacci sequence and I
want you to use a range to do this.
Now one hint I'm going to give you is you're
not going to be able to print all the
numbers using the range so you may have
to print the first number, the first couple of
numbers outside the range and then at
that point, you can start using a range
in a four loop, so that's a hint for you.
So go ahead now write the code that will
include a range in it somewhere that
will print out the first 15 numbers in
the Fibonacci sequence and remember that
you get each number except for the first
two numbers there are there exceptions,
zero and one after that you get each
number by adding up, adding the two
numbers that would come before it and
the sum is the number. So pause the video
and I'll see you in a bit.
Okay, welcome back I'm going to give you
my solution, it's the obvious solution
you may have a different solution it
doesn't matter as long as when you run,
you get the same output that I do. So all
that's important here is that your
solution works and that you're using a
range somewhere in your code, so I'm
going to say var total int and I'm
going to say var second to last equal
zero, so in case you're not sure what I'm
doing here, this is going to be the total
of the two preceding numbers and the
second-to-last number is going to be the
second number before than when I'm
trying to calculate. So in the case of
two the second-to-last number would be
this one here and I'm going to say var
last equals one. So what I've done here
is at the beginning of the sequence the
last number is 1 and the second to last
number is zero, so I'm going to start
printing my sequence now, so I'm going to
print line stuck into last because
that's the first number in the sequence
and then I'm going to print line last so
I've now printed out these two and now I
can go ahead and start using a range to
print the remaining 13 numbers and so
because I want 13 numbers I'm going to
say for i in 1 to 13, because I want to
loop around 13 times, I've written the
first two numbers and we want 15, so I
want 13 numbers at this point and I'm
going to say the total equals
second-to-last add last so I'm just add
at 0 to 1 and that's going to be the
next number in the sequence so that's
the next number we want to print out so
I'm going to go ahead and print it out
and then at this point the second to
last number becomes our last number and
the last number becomes the total so
I'll say second-to-last equals last and last
equals total and that's it that's the code.
So essentially I print these two numbers
outside the loop and I initialize second
to last to this one and last to this one
and then inside the loop by some the
second and last and last to get the next
value and that will be the total, I print
that value so that's when I print the
number in the sequence, but then of
course this number will now become the
last number and this number will now
become the second to last number and so
this is a fairly obvious solution,
it does use a range you may have a more
concise elegant solution here and if you
want to share your solution in the
question area, that's fine. I want it to
use something clear and obvious but
let's run now to make sure it actually
works and here's the first 15 numbers,
so we've got 0 1 1 2 3 5 8 we had those up
in our comment here and then 8 + 5 is 13
13 and 8 is 21, 21 + 13 is 34 etc down to
3 77 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15.
So we've got our first 15 numbers in the
Fibonacci sequence. Alright so now I want
you to do something starting with the
following code, I'm going to comment this
out and I'm going to type in some code
here and this code will be in the start
challenge that you can download the
project with start challenge project I'm
going to say i in 1 to 5, for i in 1 to 5
print line i and then I'm going to say
for j in 11 to 20, print line j and then
inside J here, for k in 100 down to 90
and we're going to print line k.
onw I want you to change this code in
some way or add something to the code
whatever you need to do to get the
following output when we run. And each
number will be on a separate line 1, 11
100 99 98 and 2 because right now if we
run, we're going to see a lot more than
that. So if I run this we're going to see
you know this is this is a long output
because we're looping around here five
times and inside there, we're looping
ten times here and inside here we're
looping ten times, so we're doing quite a
lot of looping in here we've got all
these numbers and I want you to change
this code in some way so that you just
see the following numbers. Now you should
be able to do that without having to
overwrite any of this code so in other
words, you should be able to do it by
just adding stuff to this code. So what
you should see in the console if you've
done it correctly is you'll see 1 and 11
and then you'll see 100 99 98 and then 2
and that's all you're going to see and
each number will be on a separate line
just like it is here. So pause the video
and give that a try.
Okay, so the key to this line is to use
labels in conjunction with break and
continue. Now we can tell from this input
each of these loops prints out different
numbers they don't print out overlapping
numbers, so i only ever prints one two five
the J loop only ever prints the numbers
11 to 20 and the K loop only ever
prints the number is 100 down to 90.
So we know that this one and this two
are coming from the I loop, we know that
the 11 is coming from the J and we know
that 100 to 99 to 98 is coming from K
and we can tell from the output that the
K loop and the J loop are only ever
entered once and the I loop is entered
twice but then it stops. So obviously
we're doing something in here to
short-circuit the loops so that implies
that we need break and continue but in
this case, we also need to use labels
because if we just use break and
continue we're not going to be able to
get this type of behavior at least I
don't think we can you might have come
up with a solution that actually does it
and if you have let us know. So after k
finishes, we could say break let's that-
might be our first attempt we'll say
well look K finishes here and then we
break out of the loop because we only
said you know if it's 98 obviously if
it's 98 because we never see 97, we're
breaking out of the loop so let's say if
k equals 98 because we've already
printed out the 98 and let's just say
we're done, we want to get out so let's
try that for our first shot and okay so
we'll see that we get the 1 11 100 99 98
but then we're going out to the J loop
again, because now we see 12 so instead
of getting 1 11 100 99 98 and then
getting 2 which means we've gone out to
the I loop, we're going out to the the J
loop rather. So this gives us a huge hint
as to what we might want to label
because this tells us that when we
break at 98, we actually want to jump
right back out to the I loop we want to
not do the J loop whatever. So in order
to make that happen, we're going to have
to use a label, because if we use break
here with no label, it's going to take us
up to the J loop, it'll bring us out of
the K take us up to the J. So let's label
our I loop and I'm going to call it I
loop and let's break it I loop that
should be our second attempt at this and
I don't need the semicolon there, I don't
know, I think I did that in one of
the videos too, I had a semicolon here I
don't know why I have the tendency with
breaks tad semicolons. So let's try this,
so now we're saying okay yeah we want to
break but we want to go back out to do
to the I loop we don't want to go back
into the K loop. So let's run now wow
that really cut down what we got we're
almost there but we're missing this 2,
so we're doing what we want almost we
when we hit 98 we don't come into K
anymore, we skip right over J so we only
ever enter J the once but we want the
two, so maybe instead of breaking at the
I loop, maybe we could continue at the I
loop, so let's try that.
So we'll say we want to continue at the
I loop not break completely out of the
I loop because if we do then all we'll
ever see is one, let's let's run that,
so now we get 1 11 100 99 98 and 2 but oh
now since we're not breaking out of the
I loop we're now going into the J loop
so that's our final hint it's like well
we actually just want to stop here
we're done we've got our what we wanted
we've got 1 11 100 99 98 2, we don't want
you to go into the J loop again, we don't
want you to go into the K loop, we just
want you to stop and so what we want to
do here is say, hey if i equals
two, we're done break, we're done so let's
give that a shot and we get what we're
looking for. So I don't know if you found
that difficult but it would just be a
matter of doing what we did here trying
different things and seeing if you can
at least get part of what you're looking
for and then from there getting a hint
about what you might need to do, so we
need it to do a couple of things here,
we needed to test for ninety eight and
figure out that we need it to first of
all bypass the J loop at that point and
go back up to the I loop, so we could get
the two printed and we did a test and
figured out that we actually just want
it to continue, we didn't just want to
break and then once we had that going it
was pretty easy to see that oh we also
need to break out of the I loop when i
equals two so that was the solution for
that one, I hope you had some fun and not
too much frustration trying to solve
that. Okay, so for our final challenge
this is what I want you to do, I want you
to declare a variable called num and set
it to any int value you choose. So you're
going to declare an int variable called
num and then using one expression or
statement, I want you to declare and
assign a double val variable called
d num as follows and I'll write this out
for you, so declare a variable called num
and there'll be an int and assign it
whatever you want and then declare a
variable called dnum which
will be a double and assign it as follows,
if num is greater than 100, assign
dnum minus 234567,
if num is less than 100, assign dnum
4444.555 and if num is equal to 100 assigned dnum
0.0 and then print the
value of dnum, okay? You can do this on in a
separate statement obviously, but do all
of this do all of the above in one
statement or expression, so declare an
int variable called num assign it
whatever you want, declare a double
variable called dnum and then assign
it as I've outlined here and this part
here just this part do it all using one
statement or expression. So you should be
able to do this part here in one
statement or expression. So go ahead
pause the video give that a try and then
come back and we'll do it.
Okay, welcome back we can do this in two
ways actually, so I'm going to do it the
first way and that first way is using an
if expression, so I'm going to say val
num equals and I'm going to assign it
100 and I'm going to say val dnum
equals and I'm going to say if num is
less than 100 then I want to assign it
the value minus two three four point
five six seven, else if num is greater
than 100, then I want to assign it the
value four four four four point five
five five otherwise I want to give it
the value zero point zero and then I'm
going to print it dnum and I'm going to
indent these lines a little bit,
so essentially I'm just treating the if as
an expression and I'm expecting to see
zero point zero because I assigned 100.
So let's run and see if that's what I
get, I will comment these lines out and
then I'll run and I get zero point zero.
So if I change this to 101, in that case
I'll be expecting four four four four
point five five five,
let me run and I get four four four four
point five five five, now I didn't have
to do the assignment separately of
course, I could have just printed this
directly I'll just do this temporarily
but I was having you split across two
lines I thought maybe that was makes it
a little easier for you but you don't
have to assign it to dnum and we get
the same thing so that's the first way
of doing it in one statement, it's just
using the if now the second way of doing
it of course is to use when and so let's
do it that way now so I'll say and I'll
just print this one actually I'll
sign it so I'll say val dnum equals when
and remember that if we want to test
conditions, we don't have to provide the
when with a value because what value
would we provide it with, I mean we can't
provide it with num because we're not
comparing num against something we're
actually testing conditions, so this is
one case where when doesn't take any
values, so we'll say num greater than 100
and in that case we want minus two three
four point five six seven if num is less
than 100 you want four four four four
point five five five else
we just want zero point zero and then
I'll say print line dnum, so if I run
now I should see four four four four
point five five five printed twice and I
didn't why is that ah
I switched around here that should be
negative- less than I switched my
conditions so let me do that, so now we
match so greater than greater than let's
run again. Okay now we get the four four
four four point five five five so that's
two ways of doing this, in using one
statement where you can compare a value
like num against multiple values because
we could have split this up even further
and had a bunch of else's or a bunch
more when clauses here and tested a
whole bunch of things within one
statement. Okay that's all for this
section. So apart from the when statement
and ranges what we covered is similar to
Java like I said with a few wrinkles
thrown in so not as long as of a
challenge section but I hope you had fun
practicing and I'll see you in the next section.